
Sign Up
Log In

Game8Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough & Guides WikiBeginner's Guide: Tips For Starting Out
Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel
Beginner's Guide: Tips For Starting Out
10
Add to Watchlist
Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough Team
Last updated on: September 29, 2025 10:34 PM
Hello, Duelists! We regret to inform everyone that we have discontinued updates for Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel since December 2025. Our Friends Board and PVP Board will be active, but some of our guides will not be up-to-date. Thank you for your support!

Master Duel - Beginner Guides.png

New to Yu-Gi-Oh? Fret not! This is our beginner's guide for Yu-Gi-Oh Master duels! Read on to know the best starter decks, learn every game mechanic such as Synchro and Pendulum, and learn more about deck building!

List of Contents

Before Starting Master Duel
Beginner Guides
New Game Tips
Related Guides
Before Starting Master Duel
Different from Duel Links
Master Duel - Differences with Duel Links.pngWhile Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel Links established the basics of a duel Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel brings all of the additional rules and complexity of the physical card game. Not only are there no Character Skills, but the field has been extended and life points doubled.

Full Rules and More Summon Types
Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel brings the full physical card game experience to all platforms! In Master Duel, there are more archetypes for cards, zones for both monsters and spell/trap cards, as well as an increase in Life Points to 8000, boiling the game down to a pure duel between two masters and their Decks.

Key Terms
Term	Definition
Life Points (LP)	The amount of "health" a Dueler has. The main goal would be to reduce the opponent LP to zero while preventing one's own LP from hitting that mark.**
Turn	Refers to which player on the field will have the opportunity to make their play.**
Phases	Refers to the "opportunity" of a player to perform actions within their turn. Players are given two Main Phases to set their cards on the field, and one Battle Phase to attack an enemy, along with two other phases that automatically occur.**
Draw Phase	Refers to the mandatory action in certain phases where each player will draw a card from their Deck.**
Monster Cards	The primary cards that players use to deal damage against enemies – during opponent attacks, they can also help prevent the player from taking any direct damage to their Life Points.**
Spell/Trap Cards	Special cards with unique effects. Effects can differ, ranging from taking out an opponent's card to reviving or activating a card from the Graveyard, amongst other effects.**
Hand	Cards that the players have drawn from their Deck and are ready to be used on the field.**
Deck	Refers to the "inventory" of cards that a player has. Players can pull a random card from their Deck during a Draw Phase, which they can add to their Hand.**
Graveyard	Also referred to as GY, this refers to the player's discard pile where spent cards are sent to after being used.**
Terms and Glossary

Gameplay Beginner's Guide
Preparing a Deck
Master Duel - Prepare a Deck.pngPrior to entering a match, players will have an opportunity to prepare the Deck that they'll be using in duels. Each deck contain cards that they can draw in-game to better compete against opponents. The better the cards in a Deck and the better they complement each other, the better the chances are for a player to succeed against opponents

If you're unsure of what extra cards could be added to your deck or crafted, then check out our Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duels staple card guide!
Staple Cards: The Best Cards to Craft

Main Objective
Master Duel - Main Objective.pngThe main objective during a Duel is to reduce the opponent's Life Points or LP to zero. This is done primarily through the use of cards that each player has the opportunity to place on the field.

Attacking Enemy LP
Master Duel - Attacking Enemy LP.pngDuring a match, there are very rare instances where a player will be able to directly attack an opponent's LP. This usually occurs when the opponent does not have a card placed on the field capable of absorbing the player's attacks.

Players, however, will have an opportunity to inflict some damage to the LP of an opponent if their attacking card's ATK is greater than that of the opposing player's card. This effect is greatly reduced if the attacked card has a high DEF stat, with each attacking card only being able to attack once per turn.

Alternate Win Conditions
Deck Out Victory

Aside from reducing the opponent's Life Points to 0, there are other ways to win a Duel! For example, players can Deck Out their opponent, as the player who can no longer draw cards from their Deck will automatically lose!

Alternate Win Condition - Exodia

Some cards also include special win conditions that can be fulfilled once specific requirements are met! Make sure to keep in mind how your Deck will do win conditions with your added cards!

Match Phases
Master Duel - Phases.pngIn a match, each player takes turns in trying to get their opponent's LP to reach zero. Each turn a player possesses has three Phases where they can perform actions that build up to the main objective of the game. Although there are 5 phases officially, only three are actually usable within a given turn, as the other two are automatically activated.

Phase	Effect
Draw Phase	The beginning phase in each player's turn, where players are allowed to draw 1 card from their Deck.**
Standby	Phase where players will have to wait while the opponent completes their turn.**
Main Phase One	First active phase in a player's turn where they will be able to set or activate card effects on the field.**
Battle Phase	Phase where players can actively try to assault an opponent's LP or cards.**
Main Phase Two	Similar to effects to Main Phase One.**
Summoning Monsters
Master Duel - Summoning Monsters.pngIn each of the player's Main Phases, they'll be given the opportunity to summon Monster Cards onto the field. Players can choose to either Normal Summon a card to the field, or Set it in a facedown position.

Take note however that players can only summon or set monster cards once per turn. Meaning that if a player chooses to summon a monster during Main Phase One, they can no longer do the same action in Main Phase Two.

Using Spell/Trap Cards
Master Duel - Activating Spell or Trap Cards.pngSimilar to Monster Cards, Spell or Trap Cards can be selected in each of the game's phases. Unlike Monster Cards, these cards have a very specific effect beyond simply just attacking opponent cards, and it is due to this fact that these cards can be activated during the Main Phases of a turn, and not just in the Battle Phase.

However, this effect is entirely dependent on the effects of a card, as it is usually described there when exactly players can utilize their effects.

New Account Tips
Pick a Starter Deck
Starter Decks

Yu-Gi-Oh Master Duel presents its players a choice between three starter decks they can use as a base deck. It is worth noting that while your initial choice matters, you can get the two decks you didn't pick as rewards from Ranked Duels and Solo Mode Mission.
Best Starter Deck to Choose

Link your KONAMI Account
Data Transfer Tool

To prevent any form of loss progress, we advise you to link your game to a KONAMI account. Not only will this save your progress, but it will also allow you to play on other platforms.

Cross Progression: How to Transfer Data

Gold and Normal Duel Pass
Gold Duel Pass

Yu Gi Oh! Master Duel also ships with a brand new Duel Pass that rewards players with Gems, Craft Points, and Rare Cosmetics. All new players have access to the Normal Duel Pass while the Gold Duel Pass can be bought for 600 Gems at the store.

Is the Duel Pass Worth it?

Master Duel Solo Mode
YGO Master Duel - Solo ModeMaster Duel's Solo Mode is split into Gates that are essentially mini-campaigns that have chapters within them, granting rewards as you progress through. This is a solid way to earn gems and cards from the very beginning and can act as a extension of the game's tutorial.

Solo Mode Guide: Chapters and Rewards

Buy the Structure Decks
Structure DeckIn addition to card packs, Master Duel is offering players Structure Decks they can buy and use immediately. These decks save new players the trouble of collecting cards and building a deck. And while the deck itself is not meta-breaking, it is enough to give players different playstyles they can try on ladder.

Yu-Gi-Oh Master Duel Related Guides
Yu-Gi-Oh Master Duel.png
Top Page

Yu-Gi-Oh Master Duel Guides
Master Duel - All News Category Partial.pngNews and Updates	Master Duel - All Events Category Partial.pngEvents
Master Duel - Beginner GuidesBeginner Guides	Card ListCard List
YGO Master Duel - Deck ListsDeck Lists	Accessories Slim BannerAccessories
Card Pack Partial BannerCard Packs	Yugi Oh Master Duel - Solo ModeSolo Mode Guide
Best Deck Engine Partial BannerBest Deck Engines	Master Duel - List of All CollectionsCollector's Files
Master Duel - Proficiency Test Partial Banner.pngProficiency Test	Master Duel - Message BoardsMessage Boards
Comment
See more comments (10 Comments)
Share:share on redditshare on whatsappshare on messenger
Author

Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough Team
This article was created by Game8's elite team of writers and gamers.
Leave feedback
(Login required)
Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough & Guides Wiki

Beginner's Guide: Tips For Starting Out


Please participate in our site
improvement survey
06/2026
Rankings
Popular Articles
Message Board
1
List of Consoles and Platforms
2
Unchained Deck List & Card Guide
3
The Opening Act of an Apocalypse...
4
Best Early Decks to Craft
5
Xyz Force Effect, Rarity, and Packs
See more
Gaming News
Wuthering Waves Story Review [3.4 Edgerunners Collab] | Still Scarring Us Years Later. Amazing.Wuthering Waves Story Review [3.4 Edgerunners Collab]
Voidling Bound Review (First Impressions) | Strong DNA, Fresh Mutations	Voidling Bound Review (First Impressions)
STARDUST: Wish of Witch Review | I Wish More Games Looked Like This	STARDUST: Wish of Witch Review
The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Remake Coming 2026	The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Remake Coming 2026
More Gaming News

Popular Games
Genshin Impact	Genshin Impact Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Wuthering Waves	Wuthering Waves Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Honkai: Star Rail	Honkai: Star Rail Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Neverness to Everness (NTE)	Neverness to Everness (NTE) Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Zenless Zone Zero	Zenless Zone Zero Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Pokemon TCG Pocket (PTCGP)	Pokemon TCG Pocket (PTCGP) Strategies & Guides Wiki
Umamusume: Pretty Derby	Umamusume: Pretty Derby Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Path of Exile 2 (PoE 2)	Path of Exile 2 (PoE 2) Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Arknights: Endfield	Arknights: Endfield Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Monster Hunter Wilds	Monster Hunter Wilds Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Recommended Games
Persona 3 Reload (P3R)	Persona 3 Reload Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Fire Emblem Heroes	Fire Emblem Heroes (FEH) Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Elden Ring Shadow of the Erdtree	Elden Ring Shadow of the Erdtree Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Diablo 4: Lord of Hatred (D4)	Diablo 4: Lord of Hatred Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate	Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Pokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl	Pokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl (BDSP) Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition	Cyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom	The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Monster Hunter World (MHW)	Monster Hunter World Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel	Yu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
All rights reserved
©高橋和希 スタジオ・ダイス／集英社・テレビ東京・NAS
©Konami Digital Entertainment


The copyrights of videos of games used in our content and other intellectual property rights belong to the provider of the game.
The contents we provide on this site were created personally by members of the Game8 editorial department.
We refuse the right to reuse or repost content taken without our permission such as data or images to other sites.

Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
External Communication Policy
Opt-out
Inquiries
Operating Company
Advertising
Video Ads
Act on specified commercial transactions
Gaming Wikis

Genshin Impact Walkthrough & Guides WikiWuthering Waves Walkthrough & Guides WikiHonkai: Star Rail Walkthrough & Guides WikiNeverness to Everness (NTE) Walkthrough & Guides WikiZenless Zone Zero Walkthrough & Guides WikiPokemon TCG Pocket (PTCGP) Strategies & Guides WikiUmamusume: Pretty Derby Walkthrough & Guides WikiPath of Exile 2 (PoE 2) Walkthrough & Guides WikiArknights: Endfield Walkthrough & Guides WikiMonster Hunter Wilds Walkthrough & Guides WikiGothic 1 Remake Walkthrough & Guides WikiLumenTale: Memories of Trey Walkthrough & Guides WikiThe Seven Deadly Sins: Origin Walkthrough & Guides WikiPalworld Walkthrough & Guides WikiDigimon Story: Time Stranger Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Recommended Games

Persona 3 Reload Walkthrough & Guides WikiFire Emblem Heroes (FEH) Walkthrough & Guides WikiElden Ring Shadow of the Erdtree Walkthrough & Guides WikiDiablo 4: Lord of Hatred Walkthrough & Guides WikiSuper Smash Bros. Ultimate Walkthrough & Guides WikiPokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl (BDSP) Walkthrough & Guides WikiCyberpunk 2077: Ultimate Edition Walkthrough & Guides WikiThe Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Walkthrough & Guides WikiMonster Hunter World Walkthrough & Guides WikiYu-Gi-Oh! Master Duel Walkthrough & Guides WikiLumenTale: Memories of Trey Walkthrough & Guides WikiGothic 1 Remake Walkthrough & Guides WikiThe Adventures of Elliot: The Millennium Tales Walkthrough & Guides WikiPokemon Winds and Waves Walkthrough & Guides Wiki
Game8 - Your Go-To Platform For All Game Walkthroughs and Strategy Guides© 2019 Game8, Inc.











Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information